doc/strategies.md, before:

# Strategies

The strategy is what controls how a task is actually run. The default, `terminal`, takes the task `cmd` and passes it to `vim.fn.termopen()`. Other strategies can act as a drop-in replacement for the `terminal` strategy with different features (e.g. `jobstart`), and some can change the behavior of the task entirely (e.g. `orchestrator`).

<!-- TOC -->

- [jobstart(opts)](#jobstartopts)
- [orchestrator(opts)](#orchestratoropts)
- [terminal()](#terminal)
- [test()](#test)
- [toggleterm(opts)](#toggletermopts)

<!-- /TOC -->

<!-- API -->

## jobstart(opts)

`jobstart(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using jobstart()

| Param            | Type         | Desc                                                                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| opts             | `nil\|table` |                                                                                                                                                  |
| >preserve_output | `boolean`    | If true, don't clear the buffer when tasks restart                                                                                               |
| >use_terminal    | `boolean`    | If false, use a normal non-terminal buffer to store the output. This may produce unwanted results if the task outputs terminal escape sequences. |

## orchestrator(opts)

`orchestrator(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Strategy for a meta-task that manage a sequence of other tasks

| Param  | Type    | Desc                                                                                  |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| opts   | `table` |                                                                                       |
| >tasks | `table` | A list of task definitions to run. Can include sub-lists that will be run in parallel |

**Examples:**
```lua
overseer.new_task({
  name = "Build and serve app",
  strategy = {
    "orchestrator",
    tasks = {
      "make clean", -- Step 1: clean
      {             -- Step 2: build js and css in parallel
         "npm build",
        { cmd = {"lessc", "styles.less", "styles.css"} },
      },
      "npm serve",  -- Step 3: serve
    },
  },
})
```

## terminal()

`terminal(): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using termopen()


## test()

`test(): overseer.Strategy` \
Strategy used for unit testing


## toggleterm(opts)

`toggleterm(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using the toggleterm plugin

| Param          | Type                                            | Desc                                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| opts           | `nil\|overseeer.ToggleTermStrategyOpts`         |                                                                          |
| >use_shell     | `nil\|boolean`                                  | load user shell before running task                                      |
| >size          | `nil\|number`                                   | the size of the split if direction is vertical or horizontal             |
| >direction     | `nil\|"vertical"\|"horizontal"\|"tab"\|"float"` |                                                                          |
| >highlights    | `nil\|table`                                    | map to a highlight group name and a table of it's values                 |
| >auto_scroll   | `nil\|boolean`                                  | automatically scroll to the bottom on task output                        |
| >close_on_exit | `nil\|boolean`                                  | close the terminal and delete terminal buffer (if open) after task exits |
| >quit_on_exit  | `nil\|"never"\|"always"\|"success"`             | close the terminal window (if open) after task exits                     |
| >open_on_start | `nil\|boolean`                                  | toggle open the terminal automatically when task starts                  |
| >hidden        | `nil\|boolean`                                  | cannot be toggled with normal ToggleTerm commands                        |
| >on_create     | `nil\|fun(term: table)`                         | function to execute on terminal creation                                 |


<!-- /API -->

Commit message:

fix: make PTY width configurable to prevent output truncation
When overseer runs tasks with use_terminal=true (the default), it sets
a PTY width of vim.o.columns - 4. This causes compiler output to be
truncated when the Neovim window is narrow, as programs detect the
terminal width and adjust their output accordingly.

This commit adds a new pty_width option to the jobstart strategy that
allows users to:
- Use the default auto behavior (vim.o.columns - 4)
- Set a fixed width to prevent truncation
- Set to nil to not specify any width constraint

Fixes issue #202

doc/strategies.md, after:

# Strategies

The strategy is what controls how a task is actually run. The default, `terminal`, takes the task `cmd` and passes it to `vim.fn.termopen()`. Other strategies can act as a drop-in replacement for the `terminal` strategy with different features (e.g. `jobstart`), and some can change the behavior of the task entirely (e.g. `orchestrator`).

<!-- TOC -->

- [jobstart(opts)](#jobstartopts)
- [orchestrator(opts)](#orchestratoropts)
- [terminal()](#terminal)
- [test()](#test)
- [toggleterm(opts)](#toggletermopts)

<!-- /TOC -->

<!-- API -->

## jobstart(opts)

`jobstart(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using jobstart()

| Param            | Type                       | Desc                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| opts             | `nil\|table`               |                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| >preserve_output | `boolean`                  | If true, don't clear the buffer when tasks restart                                                                                                                              |
| >use_terminal    | `boolean`                  | If false, use a normal non-terminal buffer to store the output. This may produce unwanted results if the task outputs terminal escape sequences.                                |
| >pty_width       | `nil\|integer\|"auto"`     | Width of the PTY when use_terminal is true. Can be a number, "auto" (vim.o.columns - 4), or nil (no width specified). Default is "auto". Set to nil to avoid width constraints. |

## orchestrator(opts)

`orchestrator(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Strategy for a meta-task that manage a sequence of other tasks

| Param  | Type    | Desc                                                                                  |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| opts   | `table` |                                                                                       |
| >tasks | `table` | A list of task definitions to run. Can include sub-lists that will be run in parallel |

**Examples:**
```lua
overseer.new_task({
  name = "Build and serve app",
  strategy = {
    "orchestrator",
    tasks = {
      "make clean", -- Step 1: clean
      {             -- Step 2: build js and css in parallel
         "npm build",
        { cmd = {"lessc", "styles.less", "styles.css"} },
      },
      "npm serve",  -- Step 3: serve
    },
  },
})
```

## terminal()

`terminal(): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using termopen()


## test()

`test(): overseer.Strategy` \
Strategy used for unit testing


## toggleterm(opts)

`toggleterm(opts): overseer.Strategy` \
Run tasks using the toggleterm plugin

| Param          | Type                                            | Desc                                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| opts           | `nil\|overseeer.ToggleTermStrategyOpts`         |                                                                          |
| >use_shell     | `nil\|boolean`                                  | load user shell before running task                                      |
| >size          | `nil\|number`                                   | the size of the split if direction is vertical or horizontal             |
| >direction     | `nil\|"vertical"\|"horizontal"\|"tab"\|"float"` |                                                                          |
| >highlights    | `nil\|table`                                    | map to a highlight group name and a table of it's values                 |
| >auto_scroll   | `nil\|boolean`                                  | automatically scroll to the bottom on task output                        |
| >close_on_exit | `nil\|boolean`                                  | close the terminal and delete terminal buffer (if open) after task exits |
| >quit_on_exit  | `nil\|"never"\|"always"\|"success"`             | close the terminal window (if open) after task exits                     |
| >open_on_start | `nil\|boolean`                                  | toggle open the terminal automatically when task starts                  |
| >hidden        | `nil\|boolean`                                  | cannot be toggled with normal ToggleTerm commands                        |
| >on_create     | `nil\|fun(term: table)`                         | function to execute on terminal creation                                 |


<!-- /API -->
